.\" Process this file with
.\" groff -man -Tascii export.conf.5
.\"
.TH EXPORT.CONF 5 "APRIL 2014" RozoFS "User Manuals"
.SH NAME
export.conf \- RozoFS export daemon configuration file
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B export.conf
is managed through
.B libconfig
<http://www.hyperrealm.com/libconfig/>
and thus complies to the
.B libconfig
grammar.

.SS layout
    It is the default transform layout used by RozoFS for each volume.
    Each file data will be transform in *forward* chunks. Any *inverse* set of them
    enables to reconstruct data (read data). The *forward* generated chunks can be 
    spread over *safe* storages.

       Valid layouts are:
           - 0 (inverse = 2, forward = 3, safe = 4);
           - 1 (inverse = 4, forward = 6, safe = 8);
           - 2 (inverse = 8, forward = 12, safe = 16);

.SS nodeid
    This is the numa node identifier to pin the exportd processes on when numa_aware is
    configured in rozofs.conf.
               - is optional.
               - must be an integer.

.SS stripping
    This describe the system file stripping parameters when user files are splitted on 
    several internal RozoFS files. 
    The stripping parameters can be set per export, per volume or for the whole system. 
    When no stripping is defined for an export, it takes the volume stripping parameters.
    When no stripping is defined for a volume, it takes the system stripping parameters.
    When no stripping is defined at system level, the stripping is set to no stripping.
    
       unit:   defines the size of the strip.
               The size in bytes of a strip is : 256K * (1 << unit)
               - is optional.
               - must be an integer.
             
       factor: defines the number of RozoFS files under a user file.
               The number of RozoFS files is : (1 << factor)        
               - is optional.
               - must be an integer.

.SS volumes:  
   It is a list of volumes. Each volume is identified by its vid and may contain
   a list of one or more clusters (cids). Each clusters is identified by its
   unique cid number within the configuration, and may contain at least a list of 
   *safe* storages of the same capacity (sids).

       vid: (volume identifier)
               - must be an integer.
               - must be unique for each volume managed by this exportd.

       layout: (specific layout for this volume / optional)
               - Valid layouts are 0, 1 or 2.
               - Optional field (if no layout is specified for this volume, the
                 default layout is used instead).

       stripping: specify the volume stripping. 
               - must be a valid stripping set (see system stripping above).
               - is optional. Default is to use the system stripping.      
       
       cid: (cluster identifier)
               - must be an integer.
               - must be unique for each cluster managed by this exportd.

       sid: (storage identifier)
               - must be an integer (between 1 and 255).
               - must be unique within a cluster.

       rebalance: rebalance configuration file in case a rebalance process must be automaticaly and permanently launched for this volume. 
               - must be a full path.
               - file must exist.
               - file format is described in rozo_rebalance.conf manual.
               
 
       host: (IP or hostname of the physical node that contains the storage)
               - must be a valid IPv4 address or a valid hostname.

       site: (site number where the host resides in a multi site configuration)
               - must be a strictly positive integer.
               - Optional field. 


.B  WARNING:
   - Use a new cluster when scaling with storage of different capacity.
   - Modifying or removing sid of storage can (will) lead to DATA LOSS !!!
   - Modifying or removing cid can (will) lead to DATA LOSS !!!

.SS filters
   This section describes some IPv4 filtering rules. It is a list of filters.
   Each filter has a name that enable the exports to reference it (see 
.B exports
section).
   A filter is a list of IPv4 subnets (IP address and mask length) with a 
.B allow
   or 
.B forbid 
rule. Incoming IP addresses for a given export are checked against the
   filter referenced by the export. The longuest prefix match subnet gives the
   rule to apply to the incoming client.
   
        filter: The name of a filter
        
        rule: allow or forbid (default is forbid)
        
        subnets: list of IPv4 subnets defining the filter behaviour.        
                A subnet contains the following parameters
                ip4subnet: is an IPv4 subnet in the format <ipv4>/<len>        
                           where <IPv4> is an IPv4 address in dot notation
                           and <len> is the subnet mask length from 1 to 32.
                rule: is the rule to apply to this subnet within {allow, forbid}           

 
.SS exports
   It is the list of the file systems exported by the RozoFS exportd daemon. 
   Each exported file system is identified by a unique integer : <eid>. 
   <root> is the directory path where the metadata of this file system are stored
   on the export nodes. When omitted a default <root> value is used : 
   /srv/rozofs/exports/export_<eid>.
   <name> is an administrative name of the exported file system. It must be unique
   and is used for remotly mounting the file system. When no <name> is specified
   in the configuration file, the <root> field is used instead.
   <squota> is the number of data blocks that can be stored on a file system
   before being notified. <hquota> is the number maximum of data blocks that can
   be stored on a file system. <vid> is the volume where the file data for this
   exported filesystem will be stored.

       eid: (export identifier)
               - must be an integer.
               - must be unique for each exported filesystem managed by this
                 exportd.

       root: (directory path where metadata for this filesystem will be stored)
               - must be an existing directory.
               - must be unique for each filesystem managed by this exportd.
               - default directory is /srv/rozofs/exports/export_<eid>

       name: (exported file system name)
               - must be unique for each filesystem managed by this exportd.
               - default name is the root field.

       stripping: specify the export stripping. 
               - must be a valid stripping set (see system stripping above).
               - is optional. Default is to use the volume stripping.

       filter: (IPv4 filter to apply to this export)
               - is optional (every IP is allowed when omitted).
               - must be a string defined in the filter section.
       
       squota: (soft quota)
               - squota stands for soft quota which are non blocking quotas
                 i.e write operations will succeeded but exceeded quotas will
                 be notified in /var/run/exportd/export_[eid] monitoring file.
               - when no soft quota this field may be omitted.

       hquota: (hard quota)
               - hquota stands for blocking quotas which are blocking quotas
                 i.e every attempt to write beyond hquota will fail (EDQUOT).
               - when no hard quota this field may be omitted.

       hquota_fast: (hard quota)
               - hquota_fast stands for blocking quotas which are blocking quotas
                 i.e every attempt to write beyond hquota will fail (EDQUOT).
               - when no hard quota this field may be omitted.
               - It applies for exportd for which a fast volume (SSD) is configured.

       for squota, hquota and hquota_fast:
               - quotas are express in nb. of blocks (no suffix), Kilo, Mega,
                 Giga or Tera Bytes according to suffix K, M, G or T. Only the
                  first letter of  suffix is used that is: 128G is equivalent to
                 128Giga which in turn can be 128GigaBytes etc...
               - warning: any other suffix leads to quota express in blocks.

       vid: (volume identifier used to store file data for this filesystem)
               - must be an integer.
               - should exist in volume list.
               - several filesystem can use the same volume.

       vid_fast: (volume identifier used to store file data for this filesystem whose 
                 files match some particular suffixes)
               - must be an integer.
               - should exist in volume list.
               - several filesystem can use the same volume.

       suffix_file: index of the suffix file that contains the candidate file suffixes to be stored on vid_fast
               - must be an integer (1..64).
               - the suffix files are in the same directory as export.conf
               - the predefined filename is: suffix_file_<suffix_file>.txt

       thin-provisioning: (whether accounting of allocated sectors per file must be done)
               - must be a boolean.
               - Optional field (default value is False).
               - must only be set to True on very specific cases !

.SH EXAMPLE
.PP
.nf
.ta +3i

# sample /etc/rozofs/export.conf file};

# Strip size of 1MB 
# 4 RozoFS files per user file 
stripping = { unit = 2; factor = 2;}; 

layout = 0; # Default layout 
volumes =   # List of volumes
(
    {
        # First volume using default layout
        vid    = 1; # Volume identifier
        cids=       # List of clusters of the volume
        (
            {
                # First cluster of the volume
                cid = 1; # Cluster identifier
                sids =   # List of storages of the cluster
                (
                    {sid = 01; host = "storage-node-1-1";},
                    {sid = 02; host = "storage-node-1-2";},
                    {sid = 03; host = "storage-node-1-3";},
                    {sid = 04; host = "storage-node-1-4";}
                );
            },
            {
                # Second cluster of volume
                cid = 2; # Cluster identifier
                sids =   # List of storages of the cluster
                (
                    {sid = 01; host = "storage-node-2-1";},
                    {sid = 02; host = "storage-node-2-2";},
                    {sid = 03; host = "storage-node-2-3";},
                    {sid = 04; host = "storage-node-2-4";}
                );
            }
        );
    },
    {
        # 2nd volume distributed on 4 sites
        vid    = 2; # Volume identifier
	layout = 1; # Specific layout for this volume
        cids=       # List of clusters of the volume
        (
            {
                # First cluster of the volume
                cid = 3; # Cluster identifier
                sids =   # List of storages of the cluster
                (
                    {sid = 01; host = "storage-site1-node1"; site=1;},
                    {sid = 02; host = "storage-site1-node2"; site=1;},
                    {sid = 03; host = "storage-site2-node3"; site=2;},
                    {sid = 04; host = "storage-site2-node4"; site=2;},
                    {sid = 05; host = "storage-site3-node5"; site=3;},
                    {sid = 06; host = "storage-site3-node6"; site=3;},
                    {sid = 07; host = "storage-site4-node7"; site=4;},
                    {sid = 08; host = "storage-site4-node8"; site=4;},
                );
            }
        );
    }
);

filters =
(
  {
    # Only 2 subnets are allowed 
    filter = "vol1",
    subnets =
    (
      { ip4subnet="10.10.0.0/24",     rule="allow"},
      { ip4subnet="10.20.0.0/24",     rule="allow"}
    );
  }
 ,{
    # Only one subnet is allowed except one forbidden IP address
    filter = "vol3",
    subnets =
    (
      { ip4subnet="192.168.0.0/24",   rule="allow"},
      { ip4subnet="192.168.0.22/32",  rule="forbid"}
    );
  }
);

exports = ( # List of exported filesystem

    # exported file systems on volume 1
    {eid = 1; name = "foo1"; filter="vol1", squota="128G"; hquota="256G"; vid=1;},
    {eid = 2; name = "foo2"; filter="vol1", squota="256G"; hquota="512G"; vid=1;},
    {eid = 3; name = "foo3"; filter="vol1", vid=1;},

    # exported file systems on volume 2
    {eid = 4; name = "bar1"; vid=2;}
    {eid = 5; name = "noStripping"; vid=2; stripping = { unit = 0; factor = 0;}; }

    # ...
);

.SH FILES
.I /etc/rozofs/export.conf (/usr/local/etc/rozofs/export.conf)
.RS
The system wide configuration file.
.\".SH ENVIRONMENT
.\".SH DIAGNOSTICS
.\".SH BUGS
.SH AUTHOR
Fizians <http://www.fizians.com>
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR rozofs (7),
.BR exportd (8)
