.\" Process this file with
.\" groff -man -Tascii rozo_rcmd_server.8
.\"
.TH rozo_rcmd_server 8 "MAY 2017" RozoFS "User Manuals"
.SH NAME
rozo_rcmd_server \- RozoFS remote command server
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B rozo_rcmd_server 
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B rozo_rcmd_server
is a server process running on the export host, that provides RozoFS nodes the ability to execute remotly some commands on the export host. 

The first target is the rebuild process, to make it access the meta-data in order to build the lists of files to rebuild, and to get back the result files without making use of ssh or scp commands.
.SH PARAMS
None
.SH FILES
.I /etc/rozofs/rozofs.conf
.RS
The RozoFS common confguration file.
.RE
.I /var/log/syslog
.RS
The log file. See
.BR syslogd (8)
and
.BR syslog.conf (5)
for further details.
.\".SH ENVIRONMENT
.\".SH DIAGNOSTICS
.SH "REPORTING BUGS"
Report bugs to <bugs@fizians.org>.
.SH COPYRIGHT
Copyright (c) 2013 Fizians SAS. <http://www.fizians.com>

Rozofs is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify
it under the terms of the GNU General Public License as published
by the Free Software Foundation, version 2.

Rozofs is distributed in the hope that it will be useful, but
WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of
MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the GNU
General Public License for more details.

You should have received a copy of the GNU General Public License
along with this program.  If not, see <http://www.gnu.org/licenses/>.
.SH AUTHOR
Fizians <http://www.fizians.org>
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR rozofs.conf (5)

