.\" Process this file with
.\" groff -man -Tascii rozo_trashd.8
.\"
.TH rozo_trashd 8 "MARCH 2017" RozoFS "User Manuals"
.SH NAME
rozo_trashd \- RozoFS trash daemon
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B rozo_trashd 
[
.I PARAMS
] [
.I OPTIONS
]
.B
.SH DESCRIPTION
RozoFS provides the ability to associate a local trash for each created directory. When a file is deleted, rather than removing the file from the current RozoFS filesystem, the file is moved towards the trash of its parent directory. 

At any moment, a user can restore a file/directory that has been moved in its parent trash.
However, the system cannot keep indefinitely files in the trashes and for that purpose, RozoFS provides for each export a trash process whose job is to remove
files/directories that are older than a configured retention delay.

The 
.B rozo_trashd 
daemon can operates either in one shot mode or background mode. 

When it operates in one shot mode, once all the files/directories are been scanned
searching for file/directories to delete, it stops, and needs to be restarted manunally for a next run.
When it operates in background mode, once a full scanning has been done, it sleeps waiting for the next period of activation defined by the user.

During the deletion process, the rozo_trashd process periodically provides statistics concerning the progess of the deletion. The information provided are:

.RS 
- the number of files/directories scanned,
.RE
.RS 
- the number failures while attempting to delete  files/directories.
.RE
.RS 
- the total amount of bytes that have been successfully deleted. 
.RE

These statistics are found in the following files:
.I /var/run/rozo_trashd/result_trash_<eid>
or
.I /var/run/rozo_trashd/result_trash_<eid>.json
where 
.I <eid> 
designates the export for which 
.B rozo_trashd
is run.


There is one  
.B rozo_trashd 
process per RozoFS exported filesystem. The 
.B rozo_trashd 
daemon MUST be run on server that supports the active exportd.
.B rozo_trashd
RozoFS storage rebalancer. The goal of the rebalancer is to move files within a RozoFS Volume in order to balance the storage. The process MUST run on the same node as the exportd where the volume is defined. It can be started either as a background process or in one shot mode. When it is started in the one shot mode, the process ends when the balance criteria are met.
.SH PARAMS
.IP "-e, --exportd eid"
.RS
Use 
.I eid
as the exportd identifier as defined in the export configuration file: 
.I /etc/rozofs/export.conf
(or
.I /usr/local/etc/rozofs/export.conf
according to install options)
.RE
.SH OPTIONS
.IP "-h, --help"
.RS
Print help.
.RE
.IP "-f,--frequency hours"
.RS
This option defines the delay in hours between two activation of the rozo_trashd process. (default 12 h).
.RE
.IP "-c,--config file"
.RS
Use 
.I file
as configuration file default is
.I /etc/rozofs/export.conf
(or
.I /usr/local/etc/rozofs/export.conf
according to install options)
.RE
.IP "--older days"
.RS
that option defines the retention time of files/directories in the trashes. The information is given in days unit.
.RE
.IP "--cont"
.RS
that option when set, indicates that the 
.B rozo_trashd 
process operates in continuous mode.
.RE
.IP "--verbose"
.RS
that option sets the 
.B rozo_trashd 
process in verbose mode.
.RE
.IP "-rate count"
.RS
that option defines the maximum deletion rate per second applied to files and directories (default:10).
.RE
.IP "--scan count"
.RS
that option defines the maximun i-node scanning rate per second.  (default: none).
.RE
.IP "--cfg <trashd.conf>"
.RS
When that option is provided, the frequency , deletion rate, scanning rate and verbose mode are read from that configuration file. When it is provided
.B rozo_trashd 
operates automatically in continous mode  (default: none).
.RE
.SH FILES
.I /var/run/rozo_trashd/result_trash_<eid>
,
.I /var/run/rozo_trashd/result_trash_<eid>.json
.RS
The current result files associated with  exportd <eid>. 
.RE
.I /etc/rozofs/export.conf
or
.I /usr/local/etc/rozofs/export.conf
.RS
The system wide configuration file. See
.BR export.conf (5)
for further details.
.RE
.I /var/log/syslog
.RS
The log file. See
.BR syslogd (8)
and
.BR syslog.conf (5)
for further details.
.RE

.\".SH ENVIRONMENT
.\".SH DIAGNOSTICS
.SH "REPORTING BUGS"
Report bugs to <bugs@fizians.org>.
.SH COPYRIGHT
Copyright (c) 2016 Rozo Systems. <http://www.rozofs.com>

Rozofs is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify
it under the terms of the GNU General Public License as published
by the Free Software Foundation, version 2.

Rozofs is distributed in the hope that it will be useful, but
WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of
MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the GNU
General Public License for more details.

You should have received a copy of the GNU General Public License
along with this program.  If not, see <http://www.gnu.org/licenses/>.
.SH AUTHOR
Rozo Systems <http://www.rozofs.com>
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR rozofs (7),
.BR export.conf (5),
.BR rozo_trashd.conf (5),
.BR exportd (8)
