.\" Process this file with
.\" groff -man -Tascii rozo_trash.8
.\"
.TH rozo_trash 8 "MARCH 2017" RozoFS "User Manuals"
.SH NAME
rozo_trash \- RozoFS Trash Utility
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B rozo_trash 
<enable|recursive|disable> [pathname]

.B rozo_trash 
root <enable|disable> [pathname]

.B rozo_trash 
status [pathname]

.B rozo_trash 
help

.B
.SH DESCRIPTION
RozoFS provides the ability to associate a trash with each directory thanks rozo_trash utility.
This should happen after the directory creation. The trash can be either added or removed at any time.

The trash can be associated with a directory in a recursive mode or not. When the recursive mode is selected, every
sub directory inherits the trash recursive mode from its parent at its creation time.
When the mode is not recursive, only the target directory has a trash.


The trash applies to regular file and directory only. Upon the deletion of either a file or directory,
rather than definitively removing the object, it is moved to the trash of its parent directory. The directory trash is referenced thanks the following pseudo directory name
.B @rozofs-trash@.

By default, the name of that pseudo directory is never displayed thanks command such as 
.B 'ls'

RozoFS provides a way to make it appear while indexing within a directory by defining a root trash for a directory. Only the directory that are marked with the root trash capability
makes the 
.B @rozofs-trash@
appears while indexing in the directory.



When a file is moved to the trash, RozoFS appends the date and hour at which the deletion takes place.
For a given file, RozoFS keeps only one copy in the trash. The periodicity is 
.B one hour.
RozoFS keeps in
the trash the first file that has been deleted in the period. 

Files/directories in the trashes are automatically  definitively removed from the storage thanks a RozoFS purge process (
.B rozo_trashd
)

The format of a file that resides in the trash is the following:
.B @YYYY-MM-DD-HH@@<filename>

The period does not apply for directory, each time a directory is deleted, RozoFS add an extra index
in the directory name found under the trash:
.B @YYYY-MM-DD-HH@<index>@<dirname>

Once a file or directory has been deleted, it still remains under the quota of the user. Purging or deletion of
files/directory move to trash is always under the control of the user. There no automatic deletion triggerred
by RozoFS.


.SH OPTIONS
.IP "help"
.RS
Print help.
.RE
.IP "enable|recursive|disable"
.RS
Enable/disable trash on directory pathname. When recursive is selected, the trash is enabled in recursive mode (default pathname is "
.B .
").
.RE

.IP "root enable|disable"
.RS
Enable/disable root trash on directory pathname. When the root trash is enable, the 
.B @rozofs-trash@
will be display while indexing the directory (default pathname is "
.B .
").
.RE

.IP "status"
.RS
Display the current trash status of a directory
will be display while indexing the directory (default pathname is "
.B .
").
.RE
.SH EXAMPLES

.IP "-Searching for all the files that have been moved in the trash of dir3:"

.B root@debian:/mnt1_1_g0/dir3# cd @rozofs-trash@

.B root@debian:/mnt1_1_g0/dir3/@rozofs-trash@# ls -ls

total 7

.B 1 -r--r--r-- 1 root root 8 mars   7 15:09 @2017-03-07-15@@dir11file1
.EX
1 -r--r--r-- 1 root root 9 mars   7 15:09 @2017-03-07-15@@dir11file10
1 -r--r--r-- 1 root root 8 mars   7 15:09 @2017-03-07-15@@dir11file2
1 -r--r--r-- 1 root root 8 mars   7 15:09 @2017-03-07-15@@dir11file3
1 -r--r--r-- 1 root root 8 mars   7 15:09 @2017-03-07-15@@dir11file4
1 -r--r--r-- 1 root root 8 mars   7 15:09 @2017-03-07-15@@dir11file5
1 -r--r--r-- 1 root root 8 mars   7 15:09 @2017-03-07-15@@dir11file6
1 -r--r--r-- 1 root root 8 mars   7 15:09 @2017-03-07-15@@dir11file7
1 -r--r--r-- 1 root root 8 mars   7 15:09 @2017-03-07-15@@dir11file8
1 -r--r--r-- 1 root root 8 mars   7 15:09 @2017-03-07-15@@dir11file9
.B 1 -r--r--r-- 1 root root 5 mars   8 10:38 @2017-03-08-10@@dir11file1
1 -r--r--r-- 1 root root 5 mars   8 10:38 @2017-03-08-10@@dir11file2
1 -r--r--r-- 1 root root 5 mars   8 10:38 @2017-03-08-10@@dir11file3
1 -r--r--r-- 1 root root 5 mars   8 10:38 @2017-03-08-10@@dir11file4
.EE


.IP "- Searching for the list of the files that have been trashed at a given date:"

root@debian:/mnt1_1_g0/dir3# 
.B rozo_trash ls
"2017-03-08*"

.EX
1 -r--r--r-- 1 root root 5 mars   8 10:38 @2017-03-08-10@@dir11file1
1 -r--r--r-- 1 root root 5 mars   8 10:38 @2017-03-08-10@@dir11file2
1 -r--r--r-- 1 root root 5 mars   8 10:38 @2017-03-08-10@@dir11file3
1 -r--r--r-- 1 root root 5 mars   8 10:38 @2017-03-08-10@@dir11file4
.EE

.IP "- Restore a file from the trash:"

root@debian:/mnt1_1_g0/dir3# 
.B rozo_trash restore 
@2017-03-08-10@@dir11file1 dir11file1


.\".SH ENVIRONMENT
.\".SH DIAGNOSTICS
.SH "REPORTING BUGS" 
Report bugs to <bugs@fizians.org>.
.SH COPYRIGHT
Copyright (c) 2016 Rozo Systems SAS. <http://www.rozosystem.com>

Rozofs is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify
it under the terms of the GNU General Public License as published
by the Free Software Foundation, version 2.

Rozofs is distributed in the hope that it will be useful, but
WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of
MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the GNU
General Public License for more details.

You should have received a copy of the GNU General Public License
along with this program.  If not, see <http://www.gnu.org/licenses/>.
.SH AUTHOR
Rozo Systems <http://www.rozosystem.com>
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR rozofs (7),
.BR rozo_trashd (8),
.BR rozo_trashd.conf (5)


