.\" Process this file with
.\" groff -man -Tascii rozo_storage_mount.8
.\"
.TH rozo_storage_mount 8 "SEPT 2018" RozoFS "User Manuals"
.SH NAME
rozo_storage_mount \- RozoFS storage mount utility
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B rozo_storage_mount 
[
.I options
] 
.B
.SH DESCRIPTION
This utility :  
.RS
- checks the storage configuration file syntax,  
.RE
.RS
- creates the required mount directories (with X) for every device,  
.RE
.RS
- mounts every available devices at its place,  
.RE
.RS
- initializes the device subbdirectories.  
.RE
All these actions would else be done by the storaged at startup.
.SH OPTIONS
.IP "-h, --help"
.RS
Print help.
.RE
.IP "-c, --config <file>"
.RS
Use 
.I <file>
as configuration file. default is
.I /etc/rozofs/storage.conf
(or
.I /usr/local/etc/rozofs/storage.conf
according to install options)
.SH FILES
.I /etc/rozofs/storage.conf (/usr/local/etc/rozofs/storage.conf)
.RS
The storage configuration file. See
.BR storage.conf (5)
for further details.
.\".SH ENVIRONMENT
.\".SH DIAGNOSTICS
.SH "REPORTING BUGS"
Report bugs to <bugs@fizians.org>.
.SH COPYRIGHT
Copyright (c) 2013 Fizians SAS. <http://www.fizians.com>

Rozofs is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify
it under the terms of the GNU General Public License as published
by the Free Software Foundation, version 2.

Rozofs is distributed in the hope that it will be useful, but
WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of
MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the GNU
General Public License for more details.

You should have received a copy of the GNU General Public License
along with this program.  If not, see <http://www.gnu.org/licenses/>.
.SH AUTHOR
Fizians <http://www.fizians.org>
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR rozofs (7),
.BR storage.conf (5)
