.\" Process this file with
.\" groff -man -Tascii rozodiag.8
.\"
.TH ROZODIAG 8 "FEBRUARY 2015" RozoFS "User Manuals"
.SH NAME
rozodiag \- RozoFS diagnostic tool
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B rozodiag TARGET... [ OPTIONS ]
.B
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B rozodiag
is the diagnostic interface to the RozoFS processes. 
 It enables to:
  - request various information (statistics, counters, gauges, statuses, configuration parameters, ...),
  - set some configuration parameters in order to modify the processes behavior.
.SH TARGET
.P 
 Several diagnostic targets can be specified in a single rozodiag command. 
.P
.RS 
.B TARGET = [ -i <nodes> ] PORTS
.RE
.P
 Each target names some nodes (-i <nodes>) and some diagnostics ports (PORTS).
 <nodes> can be a hostname or an IP address or a range or a list of hostnames or IP addresses.
 When <nodes> is omitted in a TARGET, it takes the value of the previous TARGET. 
 When no previous target, local address 127.0.0.1 is used as <nodes>.
.P
.RS 
.B <nodes> = { <hosts> | <IP@> }
.RE
.RS
.B <hosts> = { <hostname> | <hostname>:<N>-<P> | <hostname>:<N>,..,<P> }
.RE
.RS
.B <IP@> = { <a>.<b>.<c>.<N> | <a>.<b>.<c>.:<N>-<P> | <a>.<b>.<c>.:<N>,..,<P> } 
.RE
.P 
 The variable part of a hostname after ":" to define a list or range of hostnames, can only be numeric values.
 
 Examples for <nodes>
   -i 192.168.10.1      (only one IP address)           
   -i 192.168.10.:21-28 (a range of 8 IP addresses)     
   -i 192.168.10.:21,25 (a list of 2 IP addresses)    
   -i rozofs01          (only one host name)
   -i rozofs0:1,4,8     (a list of 3 hostnames)
   -i rozofs0:1-8       (a range of 8 hostnames)  
.RS 

.B PORTS = { -p <NPorts> | -T <LPorts> | -M <MPath>  }
.RE
.P
 Diagnostic ports can be named either as
   - numeric diagnostic ports (-p), 
   - or logical diagnostic ports (-T), 
   - or a RozoFS mount point path (-M).
 At least one -p, -T or -M option must be set in a rozodiag command.
.P
 The numeric port is either one single numeric value or a list of numeric values or a range of numeric values.
.P
.RS
.B <NPorts> = { <port> | <firstPort>,..,<lastPort> | <firstPort>-<lastPort> }
.RE
.P 
 Examples for numeric ports
   -p 52000      (only one port of master exportd)    
   -p 5000:4-7   (a range of 4 ports of the 4 storclis of rozofsmount 0)
   -p 5000:3,8   (a list of 2 ports of rozofsmount 0 and 1)
.P
 The logical port is a logical naming of the destination process diagnostic port.
.P
.RS
.B <LPorts> = { 
.RE
.RS
.B | export | export:0                
(master exportd)  
.RE
.RS
.B | export:<slave>                   
(a slave exportd)
.RE
.RS
.B | export:<slave1>,..,<slaveN>      
(a list of slave exportd)
.RE
.RS
.B | export:<slave1>-<slaveN>         
(a range of slave exportd)
.RE
.RS
.B | storaged | storio:0                        
(a storaged)
.RE
.RS
.B | storio:<cid>                     
(the storio of cluster <cid>)
.RE
.RS
.B | storio:<cid1>,...,<cidN>         
(storios of a list of cluster)
.RE
.RS
.B | storio:<cid1>-<cidN>             
(storios of a range of cluster)
.RE
.RS
.B | mount:<m> | mount:<m>:0          
(a rozofsmount instance)
.RE
.RS
.B | mount:<m1>,..,<mN>               
(a list of rozofsmount instances)
.RE
.RS
.B | mount:<m1>-<mN>                  
(a range of rozofsmount instances)
.RE
.RS
.B | mount:<m>:<s>                    
(instance <s> of storcli of rozofsmount instance <m>)
.RE
.RS
.B | mount:<m>:<s1>,...<sN>           
(a list of instances of storcli of rozofsmount instance <m>)
.RE
.RS
.B | mount:<m>:<s1>-<sN>              
(a range of instances of storcli of rozofsmount instance <m>)
.RE
.RS
.B | rebalancer[:<instance>]          
(rebalancer)  
.RE
.RS
.B }
.RE 
.P 
 Examples for logical ports
   -T mount:0       (only one port of rozofsmount 0)    
   -T mount:0:1-4   (a range of 4 ports of the 4 storclis of rozofsmount 0)
   -T export:1,6    (a list of 2 ports of exportd slave 1 and 6)
.P
 The RozoFS mount point path is a way to identify a rozofsmount and/or its storcli thanks to a local node path.
 A path value of "." can be used to specify a rozofsmount point servicing the current path.
 The storcli instances can be one storcli instance, a list of storcli instances, or a range of storcli instances.
 When targeting several nodes (-i <nodes>) it is assumed that the same rozofsmount instance serves the same path on every targeted node.
.P
.RS 
.B <MPath> = { <path> | <path>:<instances> }  
.RE
.RS
.B <instances> = { <s> | <s1>,...<sN> | <s1>-<sN> }
.RE  
.P 
 Examples for mount path
   -M /mnt/rfs      (rozofsmount instance servicing local path /mnt/rfs)    
   -M /mnt/rfs:1    (storcli 1 of rozofsmount instance servicing local path /mnt/rfs)   
   -M /mnt/rfs:1-4  (storcli 1 to 4 of rozofsmount instance servicing local path /mnt/rfs)   
   -M .             (rozofsmount instance servicing local curent path)
   -M .:1           (storcli 1 of rozofsmount instance servicing local curent path)
   -M .:1,2         (storcli 1 and 2 of rozofsmount instance servicing local curent path)
.SH OPTIONS
.IP "-h, --help"
.RS
Print help. 
.RE
.IP "-c <cmdline>"
.RS
.I <cmdline>
is the optional diagnostic command line. Several -c options can be set
in order to run several diagnostic commands in a run. 
When neither -c nor -f is set in the command, 
the rozodiag tools connects to the target in interactive mode.
.RE
.IP "-f <cmdfile>"
.RS
.I <cmdfile> 
is a file containing a diagnostic command per file line that the
rozodiag tool will run. 
When neither -c nor -f is set in the command, 
the rozodiag tools connects to the target in interactive mode.
.RE
.IP "--period, -P <seconds>"
.RS
.I <seconds>
gives the periodicity in seconds (floating) to run the diagnostic commands given either
through the -c or the -f option. 
.SH EXAMPLES
.P
Targeting two local mount points /mnt/rfs1 and /mnt/rfs2
.RS
rozodiag -M /mnt/rfs1 -M /mnt/rfs2 -c throughput col 6 --period 15
.RE
.P
Targeting the current RozoFS mount point we are on
.RS
rozodiag -M . -c mount
.RE
.P
Targeting the 4 storclis of the local RozoFS mount point we are on
.RS
rozodiag -M .:1-4 -c profiler
.RE
.P
Targeting RozoFS mount /mnt/rfs on several nodes (assuming the same instance is used on local node and remote nodes)
.RS
rozodiag -i node:1-4 -M /mnt/rfs -c profiler reset
.RE
.P
Targeting the export slave 1 on node 192.168.2.1 
.RS
rozodiag -i 192.168.2.21 -T export:1 -c trash json --period 30
.RE
.P
Targeting all exportd including the master on node 192.168.2.1 
.RS
rozodiag -i 192.168.2.21 -T export:0-8 -c clients
.RE
.P
Targeting the storaged of 8 nodes
.RS
rozodiag -i node:1-8 -T storaged -c dstatus
.RE
.P
Targeting the storios of the 6 clusters of one node
.RS
rozodiag -i node5 -T storio:1-6 -c log
.RE
.P
Targeting rozofsmount instance 2 and its 4 STORCLIs on one node
.RS
rozodiag -i node3 -T mount:2:0-4 -c lbg_entries 
.RE
.P
Targeting rozofsmount instance 2 and its 4 STORCLIs on 2 nodes
.RS
rozodiag -i node:1,3 -T mount:2:0-4 -c repair
.RE
.\".SH ENVIRONMENT
.\".SH DIAGNOSTICS
.SH "REPORTING BUGS"
Report bugs to <bugs@fizians.org>.
.SH COPYRIGHT
Copyright (c) 2013 Fizians SAS. <http://www.fizians.com>

RozoFS is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify
it under the terms of the GNU General Public License as published
by the Free Software Foundation, version 2.

RozoFS is distributed in the hope that it will be useful, but
WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of
MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the GNU
General Public License for more details.

You should have received a copy of the GNU General Public License
along with this program.  If not, see <http://www.gnu.org/licenses/>.
.SH AUTHOR
Fizians <http://www.fizians.org>
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR rozofs (7),
