.\" Process this file with
.\" groff -man -Tascii rozo_trashd.conf.5
.\"
.TH rozo_trashd.conf 5 "APRIL 2015" RozoFS "User Manuals"
.SH NAME
rozo_trashd.conf \- RozoFS trash daemon configuration file
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B "rozo_trashd.conf"
is managed thanks to 
.B libconfig
<http://www.hyperrealm.com/libconfig/> and thus complies to the
.B libconfig
grammar.

Boolean values must be set to either
.B
True
or
.B
False.

String values must enclosed into double quotes.

One of such file should be created per export, and referenced in exportd.conf, 
although several volumes could use the same configuration file.

.SS frequency
This parameter defines the scanning frequency in hours of the RozoFS trash daemon process.
See the --frequency parameter of the CLI.

.SS older
This parameter defines the retention time in days that a file/directory might remain in
RozoFS trash before effective deletion.. 
See the --older parameter of the CLI.

.SS deletion_rate
This parameter defines the maximum deletion rate applied to files and directories. 
See the --rate parameter of the CLI.

.SS scan_rate
This parameter defines the maximum inodes scanning rate while searching for file/directory to delete. 
A value of -1 indicates that the scanning is achieved at the maximum rate.
See the --scan parameter of the CLI.

.SS verbose
That option indicates that the trash process operates in verbose mode:
See --verbose parameter of the CLI.
.SH EXAMPLE
.PP
.nf
.ta +3i
frequency                                          = 12;
deletion_rate                                      = 100;
scan_rate                                          = 20000;
.SH FILES
.I /etc/rozofs/rozo_trashd.conf (/usr/local/etc/rozofs/rozo_trashd.conf)
.RS
.\".SH ENVIRONMENT
.\".SH DIAGNOSTICS
.\".SH BUGS
.SH AUTHOR
Rozo Systems <http://www.rozofs.com>
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR exportd.conf (5), rozofs (7), rozo_trashd (8)
